Should You Hold Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) Stock Monday Morning?
Monday, February 07, 2022 07:29 AM | InvestorsObserver Analysts
Should You Hold Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) Stock Monday Morning?
Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) has gained Monday morning, with the stock adding 6.82% in pre-market trading to 4.07. BITF's short-term technical score of 69 indicates that the stock has traded more bullishly over the last month than 69% of stocks on the market. In the Capital Markets industry, which ranks 95 out of 146 industries, Bitfarms Ltd ranks higher than 66% of stocks. Bitfarms Ltd has fallen 11.19% over the past month, closing at $4.31 on January 10. During this period of time, the stock fell as low as $3.10 and as high as $5.11. BITF has an average analyst recommendation of Strong Buy. The company has an average price target of $10.00.

BITF has an Overall Score of 46. Find out what this means to you and get the rest of the rankings on BITF!
See Full BITF Report
Bitfarms Ltd has a Long-Term Technical rank of 0. This means that trading over the last 200 trading days has placed the company in the lower half of stocks with 100% of the market scoring higher. In the Capital Markets industry which is number 93 by this metric, BITF ranks better than 0% of stocks.
Important Dates for Investors in BITF:
-Bitfarms Ltd is set to release earnings on 3/24/2022 -We do not have a set dividend date for Bitfarms Ltd at this time. Click Here To Get The Full Report on Bitfarms Ltd (BITF)

Do Analysts Expect Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) Stock to Rise After It Has Fallen -27.25% in a Month?
Last Updated: Friday, January 21, 2022 10:44 AM | InvestorsObserver Analysts
Do Analysts Expect Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) Stock to Rise After It Has Fallen -27.25% in a Month?
InvestorsObserver is giving Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) an Analyst Rating Rank of 74, meaning BITF is ranked higher by analysts than 74% of stocks. The average price target for BITF is $10 and analyst’s rate the stock as a Strong Buy.

Overall Score - 5
Wall Street analysts are rating BITF a Strong Buy today. Find out what this means to you and get the rest of the rankings on BITF!
See Full BITF Report
Why are Analyst Ratings Important?
Analysts know the inner workings of the companies they follow better than anyone but the companies’ management. You can learn a lot about a company from studying the financial statements, but analysts ask questions on conference calls and understand the intricacies of each of the businesses they cover. Analysts understand how bad weather in one part of the world can disrupt supply chains, or disrupt shopping patterns. This lets traders make decisions **before** a quarterly report that could be worse than expected. InvestorsObserver aggregates the ratings of all the analysts covering a given stock, takes the average of those ratings and then percentile ranks the averages. That provides a level of granularity that is significantly better than just the three levels provided by traditional buy/hold/sell ratings.
What's Happening With Bitfarms Ltd Stock Today?
Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) stock is trading at $3.71 as of 10:43 AM on Friday, Jan 21, a decline of -$0.45, or -10.94% from the previous closing price of $4.16. The stock has traded between $3.49 and $3.91 so far today. Volume today is light. So far 4,349,518 shares have traded compared to average volume of 6,260,674 shares. Click Here to get the full Stock Report for Bitfarms Ltd stock.

-Bitfarms Ltd (BITF) stock is trading at $3.85, an increase of $0.45, or 13.38%, on average volume. Bitfarms Ltd gets a Sentiment Score of Neutral from InvestorsObserver and receives an average analyst recommendation of Strong Buy with a price target of $10.00.

Bitfarms mines 51% higher BTC in January 2022
Feb. 01, 2022 7:35 AM ETBitfarms Ltd. (BITF)BTC-USDBy: Khyathi Dalal, SA News Editor
digital background with heap of famous cryptocurrency signs
whitehoune/iStock via Getty Images

With the commencement of operations in January at its 10 MW farm in Paraguay, Bitfarms (NASDAQ:BITF) increased total farms in production from six to seven and total capacity to 116 MW (+9% from prior 106 MW).
For January, the company achieved 2.3 EH/s (effective Jan.23), which is up 100 petahash per second from December 2021.
The company mined 301 new BTC (+51% from year ago month); 9.5+ BTC mined daily on average which is equivalent to ~$365,900/day and ~$11.4M for the month.
Bitcoin (BTC-USD) prices have reported a 4.2% gain in past 1-day trading while in past 1 month shows a 16.7% loss.
From total mining, 299 BTC was deposited into custody.
As of Jan.31, 2022, 4.6K BTC was in custody which is inclusive of 1KBTC purchased during the month, representing a total value of ~$175M.
The company received and installed ~1,840 new miners in January 2022 and it ended the month with 47,360 contractually secured miners for scheduled deliveries across 2022.
Bitfarms reported 363 new BTC mined during December 2021, taking the 2021 total to 3,452; it achieved 2.2 EH/s effective Dec.12.
BITF trades 2.2% higher premarket.

The 8.8% return this week takes Bitfarms' (CVE:BITF) shareholders one-year gains to 13%
BySimply Wall StPublishedFebruary 04, 2022
TSXV:BITFSource: Shutterstock
Some Bitfarms Ltd. (CVE:BITF) shareholders are probably rather concerned to see the share price fall 52% over the last three months. Taking a longer term view we see the stock is up over one year. But to be blunt its return of 13% fall short of what you could have got from an index fund (around 21%).

Since it's been a strong week for Bitfarms shareholders, let's have a look at trend of the longer term fundamentals.

See our latest analysis for Bitfarms

While markets are a powerful pricing mechanism, share prices reflect investor sentiment, not just underlying business performance. One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.

During the last year Bitfarms grew its earnings per share, moving from a loss to a profit.

When a company has just transitioned to profitability, earnings per share growth is not always the best way to look at the share price action.

We think that the revenue growth of 257% could have some investors interested. We do see some companies suppress earnings in order to accelerate revenue growth.

The image below shows how earnings and revenue have tracked over time (if you click on the image you can see greater detail).

earnings-and-revenue-growth
TSXV:BITF Earnings and Revenue Growth February 4th 2022
We're pleased to report that the CEO is remunerated more modestly than most CEOs at similarly capitalized companies. But while CEO remuneration is always worth checking, the really important question is whether the company can grow earnings going forward. So we recommend checking out this free report showing consensus forecasts

A Different Perspective
Bitfarms shareholders have gained 13% for the year. Unfortunately this falls short of the market return of around 21%. The stock trailed the market by 52% in that time, testament to the power of passive investing. It might be that investors are more concerned about the business lately due to some fundamental change (or else the share price simply got ahead of itself, previously). I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. Take risks, for example - Bitfarms has 4 warning signs (and 2 which are concerning) we think you should know about.

The cryptocurrency space – which investors can gain exposure to through a range of asset classes, including digital currencies, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and crypto mining stocks, among others – can best be described as volatile.

Take for instance the roller-coaster ride Bitcoin went on in 2021. The cryptocurrency entered the year trading around $29,000, rocketed its way north of $63,000 by mid-April, crashed back below $30,000 by mid-July before bouncing up to $69,000 by November and ending the year around $46,000.

That still worked out to an impressive year-over-year gain – and many on Wall Street see the momentum (and volatility) continuing for cryptocurrencies in 2022.

The 22 Best Stocks to Buy for 2022
But what does this mean for investors in the broader crypto space? 

One of the stronger plays, according to many Wall Street pros, is in crypto miners. "Cryptocurrency 'mining' is the process through which the blockchain is secured and new cryptocurrency coins are brought into circulation," says Jefferies analyst Jonathan Petersen.

Mining can be very profitable, adds Petersen, especially for those companies that have numerous mining machines that are able to produce above-average hash rates (the power required to mine and process transactions on the blockchain).

"Crypto mining is a rapidly emerging space with huge upside, but it is risky," says B. Riley Securities analyst Randy Binner. "While challenges exist, we see significant opportunities from current levels for miners that have infrastructure in place and can build scale," he adds. 

With that in mind, here are three top-rated crypto miners. The space is fairly limited at the moment, and even the best cryptocurrency miners are risky plays for investors and can be prone to wide and sporadic price swings. As such, we've decided to tap the TipRanks database; while Wall Street analysts have largely ignored the sector, we looked for those crypto mining names that have earned Buy ratings from the pros and offer significant upside potential. Let's take a closer look.

Why Bitcoin Mining Stocks Soared on Friday
The price of Bitcoin was up, and so are the quantities of tokens these companies are mining.

Jon Quast
(TMFJaguar)
Feb 4, 2022 at 6:01PM
Author Bio
What happened
The price of Bitcoin (CRYPTO:BTC) was suddenly surging Friday. As of 3:30 p.m. ET, Bitcoin was trading at around $40,600, having jumped 11% over the previous 24 hours.

That pulled a host of Bitcoin mining stocks higher as well. For example, Bitfarms (NASDAQ:BITF), Riot Blockchain (NASDAQ:RIOT), Hut 8 Mining (NASDAQ:HUT), and Bit Digital (NASDAQ:BTBT) were up 14%, 13%, 14%, and 20%, respectively, as of this writing. But those gains were not entirely because of Bitcoin's move. Some of these companies have also recently released updates about their businesses, and investors' responses to those news releases contributed to their share price jumps on Friday.

An investor looks at a chart on a computer while holding a golden coin.
IMAGE SOURCE: GETTY IMAGES.

So what
On Friday morning, Riot Blockchain gave its monthly operational update, a common practice among cryptocurrency mining companies. During January, it mined 458 Bitcoins, an increase of 252% year over year and a 7.8% increase from December. The reason for the increase is simple -- it's adding more mining power constantly.

Bitfarms is also adding more hardware to expand its Bitcoin mining operations. The company updated its shareholders on Feb. 1, saying it had mined 301 Bitcoins during January. That was up 51% year over year, but was a substantial drop from the 363 Bitcoins it mined last month. The decline relates to the fact that operates in Canada, and at times during the winter months, the Quebec provincial government asks major crypto miners to reduce their electricity use to ensure that there's enough for more important things, like heating and powering homes and businesses.

Hut 8 likewise updated shareholders Thursday. It mined 308 Bitcoins in January. And during the month, it increased its hashing power -- how mining power is measured -- by 17% from just the previous month.

For its part, Bit Digital hasn't yet updated shareholders in February. But it's understandable why its stock popped: All of these businesses benefit from higher Bitcoin prices, and on Friday, at least, they were rising.

^SPX Chart

YEAR TO DATE PERFORMANCES FOR THESE FOUR BITCOIN MINING STOCKS, BITCOIN, AND THE S&P 500. ^SPX DATA BY YCHARTS

Now what
Can Bitcoin keep rising? The answer is far from certain. However, I like to think about supply and demand when it comes to the cryptocurrency. There are currently less than 19 million Bitcoins in circulation, and the protocol caps the total number that ever can exist at 21 million. When Bitfarms, Riot Blockchain, Hut 8, and Bit Digital work to validate transactions, new Bitcoins are unlocked and released, gradually working that total to its eventual limit. 

What's interesting is that because these are public companies, they have easy access to capital that they can use to pay their bills. Therefore, they can hold onto nearly all of the Bitcoin that they mine. As of their most recent updates, here's how many Bitcoins they were holding:

Bitfarms: 4,600
Riot Blockchain: 5,347
Hut 8: 5,826
Bit Digital: 627
The public Bitcoin mining companies represent a large portion of the total Bitcoin hash rate. And because they're holding so many of the Bitcoins they mine, the overall circulating supply of tokens isn't going up as much as it otherwise would.

Considering these companies don't need to sell their Bitcoin holdings, I think it's reasonable to assume a lot of Bitcoins will continue to be held by miners in coming the months and years. And if new buyers continue to come into Bitcoin, as they have over the past couple of years, that increase in demand could cause its price to rise further.

However, if 2022 has taught us anything so far, it's that Bitcoin remains as volatile today as it ever was. Anyone looking to invest in this space, therefore, should be mentally prepared for a wild ride.

What happened
The price of Bitcoin (CRYPTO: BTC) was suddenly surging Friday. As of 3:30 p.m. ET, Bitcoin was trading at around $40,600, having jumped 11% over the previous 24 hours.

That pulled a host of Bitcoin mining stocks higher as well. For example, Bitfarms (NASDAQ: BITF), Riot Blockchain (NASDAQ: RIOT), Hut 8 Mining (NASDAQ: HUT), and Bit Digital (NASDAQ: BTBT) were up 14%, 13%, 14%, and 20%, respectively, as of this writing. But those gains were not entirely because of Bitcoin's move. Some of these companies have also recently released updates about their businesses, and investors' responses to those news releases contributed to their share price jumps on Friday.

An investor looks at a chart on a computer while holding a golden coin.
Image source: Getty Images.

So what
On Friday morning, Riot Blockchain gave its monthly operational update, a common practice among cryptocurrency mining companies. During January, it mined 458 Bitcoins, an increase of 252% year over year and a 7.8% increase from December. The reason for the increase is simple -- it's adding more mining power constantly.

Bitfarms is also adding more hardware to expand its Bitcoin mining operations. The company updated its shareholders on Feb. 1, saying it had mined 301 Bitcoins during January. That was up 51% year over year, but was a substantial drop from the 363 Bitcoins it mined last month. The decline relates to the fact that operates in Canada, and at times during the winter months, the Quebec provincial government asks major crypto miners to reduce their electricity use to ensure that there's enough for more important things, like heating and powering homes and businesses.

Hut 8 likewise updated shareholders Thursday. It mined 308 Bitcoins in January. And during the month, it increased its hashing power -- how mining power is measured -- by 17% from just the previous month.

For its part, Bit Digital hasn't yet updated shareholders in February. But it's understandable why its stock popped: All of these businesses benefit from higher Bitcoin prices, and on Friday, at least, they were rising.

^SPX Chart

Year to date performances for these four Bitcoin mining stocks, Bitcoin, and the S&P 500. ^SPX data by YCharts

Now what
Can Bitcoin keep rising? The answer is far from certain. However, I like to think about supply and demand when it comes to the cryptocurrency. There are currently less than 19 million Bitcoins in circulation, and the protocol caps the total number that ever can exist at 21 million. When Bitfarms, Riot Blockchain, Hut 8, and Bit Digital work to validate transactions, new Bitcoins are unlocked and released, gradually working that total to its eventual limit.

What's interesting is that because these are public companies, they have easy access to capital that they can use to pay their bills. Therefore, they can hold onto nearly all of the Bitcoin that they mine. As of their most recent updates, here's how many Bitcoins they were holding:

Bitfarms: 4,600
Riot Blockchain: 5,347
Hut 8: 5,826
Bit Digital: 627
The public Bitcoin mining companies represent a large portion of the total Bitcoin hash rate. And because they're holding so many of the Bitcoins they mine, the overall circulating supply of tokens isn't going up as much as it otherwise would.

Considering these companies don't need to sell their Bitcoin holdings, I think it's reasonable to assume a lot of Bitcoins will continue to be held by miners in coming the months and years. And if new buyers continue to come into Bitcoin, as they have over the past couple of years, that increase in demand could cause its price to rise further.

However, if 2022 has taught us anything so far, it's that Bitcoin remains as volatile today as it ever was. Anyone looking to invest in this space, therefore, should be mentally prepared for a wild ride.

10 stocks we like better than Riot Blockchain, Inc
When our award-winning analyst team has a stock tip, it can pay to listen. After all, the newsletter they have run for over a decade, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the market.*

They just revealed what they believe are the ten best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Riot Blockchain, Inc wasn't one of them! That's right -- they think these 10 stocks are even better buys.

Riot Blockchain: Not the Best Pick in Bitcoin Mining
CONTRIBUTOR
Ian Bezek  InvestorPlace
PUBLISHED
JAN 24, 2022 12:54PM EST
InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Riot Blockchain (NASDAQ:RIOT) is one of the original publicly-traded cryptocurrency mining companies. RIOT stock originally rose to prominence in 2007, with shares surging from $4 to $30. However, both the price of Bitcoin (CCC:BTC-USD) and Riot soon plunged.

Flying cryptocurrencies (crpytos)
Source: Wit Olszewski / Shutterstock.com

By the end of 2018, RIOT stock had collapsed to just $2 per share. Part of this was likely tied to the company’s dismal operating results. For 2018, Riot earned just $8 million in revenues while losing $24 million on an operating income basis. The company’s operations continued to produce equally unpleasant results in 2019 and 2020 and the stock didn’t go anywhere.

At the end of 2020 and into early 2021, RIOT stock blasted off as the price of Bitcoin went to the stratosphere. RIOT shares catapulted from $5 to a high of $70. However, once again, Riot has failed to hold its gains. The core problem simply seems to be its structurally low profit margins.

Revenues Are Up, But Profits Aren’t
For full-year 2020, Riot generated $12 million of revenues. After its core mining costs, Riot scored $8 million of gross profits. Not bad. However, Riot spent $13 million on sales, general, and administration (SG&A), along with additional other costs such as depreciation. Overall, Riot lost $10 million in operating income in 2020.

7 Utility Stocks to Buy Despite the Heating Crisis
Over the past 12 months, Riot’s revenues soared to $128 million. That’s a tenfold increase in a year. And it got its gross profit up to $82 million. Sounds like a winner, right? However, SG&A surged to $53 million as Riot’s overhead costs exploded. Other costs such as depreciation soared as well. Add it all up, and Riot lost $10 million over the past 12 months; that’s exactly the same loss as it generated in 2020 on far lower revenue levels.

Simply put, Riot hasn’t proven that it can scale the business effectively. Sure, it can grow revenues a ton. But if costs escalate at the same speed, there’s little actual progress being made.

Perhaps the cost of Bitcoin will soar high enough to make absolutely every mining company out there profitable. But, if not, Riot’s bloated cost structure will leave it struggling to compete with firms with more streamlined operations. Mining, be it for actual metals or digital coins, tends to be a commodity business where the low-cost producers have the upper hand.

Plenty of Publicly-Traded Peers
Previously, I highlighted Marathon Digital (NASDAQ:MARA) as a high-risk, high-reward play on the crypto mining space. Marathon is not only one of the leading miners in the industry, it also is holding onto much of the BTC that it mines rather than selling it. This gives Marathon a ton of juice to potential higher crypto prices. On the other hand, if crypto sinks, MARA stock could be in a world of hurt since it isn’t selling all its output for dollars immediately.

Other players such as Stronghold Digital Mining (NASDAQ:SDIG) and Bitfarms (NASDAQ:BITF) have an appeal based around very low mining costs per unit and unique features such as owning their own power plants. To give a sense of the difference in cost, consider that Bitfarms generated $48 million of operating income over the past 12 months from $121 million of revenues. Riot, while producing a similar amount of revenues, lost money.

If you look beyond the American markets, there are even more crypto-mining companies. Look around at exchanges such as the Canadian one and there are a variety of firms with different business plans to profit from the opportunity in crypto mining.

All that to say that Riot is hardly the only way to get exposure to crypto mining. Riot has been around for a long time. But it failed to capitalize off the 2017 crypto boom, and it similarly couldn’t generate meaningful profits when BTC soared in last year. At this point, investors may demand more of their crypto mining firms.

RIOT Stock Verdict
I believe investors have given Riot Blockchain a premium valuation for non-economic reasons. Namely, it’s been U.S.-listed for many years and established a brand for itself. When traders think of crypto mining, Riot is one of the first stocks that comes to mind. That’s useful from a corporate perspective, especially if Riot wishes to raise more money with stock offerings in the future.

However, purely from a bitcoin mining economics standpoint, Riot hardly seems like the best option. Alternatives such as Bitfarms seem to give a much more compelling risk/reward profile at the current juncture. RIOT stock might be good for short-term trading, but it’s not the best long-term investment option in this space.

3 Crypto Mining Stocks With Massive Upside Potential
CONTRIBUTOR
Maya Sasson  Kiplinger
PUBLISHED
JAN 19, 2022 11:02AM EST
The cryptocurrency space – which investors can gain exposure to through a range of asset classes, including digital currencies, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and crypto mining stocks, among others – can best be described as volatile.

Take for instance the roller-coaster ride Bitcoin went on in 2021. The cryptocurrency entered the year trading around $29,000, rocketed its way north of $63,000 by mid-April, crashed back below $30,000 by mid-July before bouncing up to $69,000 by November and ending the year around $46,000.

That still worked out to an impressive year-over-year gain – and many on Wall Street see the momentum (and volatility) continuing for cryptocurrencies in 2022.

SEE MORE The 22 Best Stocks to Buy for 2022
But what does this mean for investors in the broader crypto space? 

One of the stronger plays, according to many Wall Street pros, is in crypto miners. "Cryptocurrency 'mining' is the process through which the blockchain is secured and new cryptocurrency coins are brought into circulation," says Jefferies analyst Jonathan Petersen.

Mining can be very profitable, adds Petersen, especially for those companies that have numerous mining machines that are able to produce above-average hash rates (the power required to mine and process transactions on the blockchain).

"Crypto mining is a rapidly emerging space with huge upside, but it is risky," says B. Riley Securities analyst Randy Binner. "While challenges exist, we see significant opportunities from current levels for miners that have infrastructure in place and can build scale," he adds. 

With that in mind, here are three top-rated crypto miners. The space is fairly limited at the moment, and even the best cryptocurrency miners are risky plays for investors and can be prone to wide and sporadic price swings. As such, we've decided to tap the TipRanks database; while Wall Street analysts have largely ignored the sector, we looked for those crypto mining names that have earned Buy ratings from the pros and offer significant upside potential. Let's take a closer look.

SEE MORE 15 Bitcoin ETFs and Cryptocurrency Funds You Should Know
Data is as of Jan. 18. 


Getty Images
Bitfarms
Market value: $853.7 million
TipRanks consensus price target: $10.00 (139% upside potential)
TipRanks consensus rating: Moderate Buy
The smallest of the crypto miners on this list, as measured by market cap, is Bitfarms (BITF, $4.19). BITF provides the computing power to cryptocurrency networks, collecting fees for securing and processing transactions from each network. Additionally, its operations are powered by hydroelectricity, making its mining activities more environmentally friendly.

H.C. Wainwright analyst Kevin Dede is the only analyst to have weighed in with a recommendation, rating Bitfarms a Buy. Dede recently increased his price target on the stock to $10 from $8, implying potential upside of 139%.

"We remain decidedly bullish on the mining sector and Bitfarms' positioning," he says. This is due in part to what Dede calls a "highly favorable mining environment," Bitcoin's emergence as a "more versatile" inflation hedge than gold and crypto's rising institutional relevance.

As for BITF, specifically, Dede adds that the stock is trading at a 30%-plus discount to its peers, even as the company "has direct visibility to twice the electrical power and comparable hash."

Bitfarms currently has six total facilities following the late-2021 purchase of a new facility in Washington state – its first in the U.S. The crypto mining name should now have access to 404 MW (megawatts) of power capacity, the majority of which Dede expects to be online by the end of 2022. He believes this could support roughly 11 EH/s, assuming 3.8 kilowatts (kW) and 100 TH/s (terahash per second).

Plus, BITF management is vocalizing concerns about Bitcoin's next halving in 2024 – something Dede has not heard discussed much across the mining community. "Managing for that scenario is critical," the analyst says.

On top of this, Dede thinks that Bitfarms will continue to expand, while keeping the cost of power low and looking for compelling merger and acquisition (M&A) opportunities. Get the full scoop on Bitfarms stock.

SEE MORE The 12 Best Tech Stocks to Buy for 2022

Getty Images
Hut 8 Mining
Market value: $1.0 billion
TipRanks consensus price target: $19.52 (216% upside potential)
TipRanks consensus rating: Moderate Buy
With multiple data mining centers and advanced computing infrastructure, digital asset mining name Hut 8 Mining (HUT, $6.18) boasts 109 MW of existing power capacity, enabling it to meet its partners' cryptocurrency mining needs.

Hut 8 just got a thumbs-up from H.C. Wainwright's Dede, who is optimistic about the mining player's long-term growth prospects. He has a Buy rating on the crypto miner, and recently hiked his price target on the stock to $19 from $11.

What's behind Dede's bullish stance? "Hut's transformation into an industrial bitcoin miner with diverse revenue streams and power sources from its 1,600 GH/s [gigahash per second] GPU fleet, hosting, lending and Validus power partnership, coupled with the 4.5 EH/s [exahash per second] of computer hash power owned or contracted and near-term access to 100 MW of Ottawa power," he says. This will likely elevate the company above its historical 109 MW power capacity.

What's more, the "name of the industrial mining game" is the ability to keep up with "bitcoin mining network growth" in a way that limits costs, Dede says. Although this reflects an "obstacle" for the space as a whole, he argues that Hut 8 has several ways to increase its self-mining. This includes the two significant miner purchases HUT made in the back half of 2021 which are expected to result in total hashing capacity of nearly 2.2 EH/s once deployed.

The analyst recently raised his fiscal 2022 revenue outlook for HUT (to C$299.8 million from $244.1 million). However, he called the guidance "conservative" and said he's waiting to see how new machine deployment at the company's Medicine Hat, Alberta, and North Bay, Ontario, locations unfolds.  

Still, Dede isn't alone in his outlook that HUT is one of the best crypto miners out there. Both pros that cover the stock call it a Buy, which translates into a Moderate Buy rating (simply given a lack of overall coverage). The average price target of $19.52 suggests a whopping 216% upside potential to current levels. TipRanks offers up a full analyst rundown of HUT shares.

SEE MORE Can AI Beat the Market? 10 Stocks to Watch

Getty Images
Marathon Digital
Market value: $2.7 billion
TipRanks consensus price target: $64.25 (146% upside potential)
TipRanks consensus rating: Strong Buy
Marathon Digital (MARA, $26.07) is working to become one of the largest cryptocurrency miners in North America. Its growth strategy is focused on increasing the hash rate to improve production and limiting the risk involved in the business by becoming more defensible against potential Bitcoin price drops.

H.C. Wainwright's Dede has a Buy rating on MARA stock, as well as a $50 price target. Although this is the most conservative price target on the Street, the possible upside still clocks in at almost 92%.  

According to Dede, the bitcoin mining name just took "two giant leaps" forward. For one, toward the latter half of last year, MARA announced "what may be the largest North American miner purchase order by hash in history." This includes the acquisition of 78,000 Antminer S19 XP machines, valued at $879 million, which deliver approximately 140 TH/s each, or 10-11 EH/s total.

This, the analyst points out, is "more hash than two or three average institutional North American bitcoin mining rivals combined." It also implies that Marathon's total hash rate could reach 23.3 EH/s by early 2023.

Those following MARA may not be surprised by the acquisition, he adds. Marathon has been setting the bar for North American bitcoin hash build since December 2020, when it purchased 70,000 machines, producing roughly 10.36 EH/s.

The "second leap," according to Dede is "the formation of a three-way joint venture between an unnamed green energy supplier in Texas, Compute North – Marathon's hosting service provider for all machines outside of Hardin – and Marathon itself as the third member," Dede commented. By teaming up with energy suppliers, MARA has created a foundation for ensuring it has sufficient power to run its 169,000-machine fleet.

Dede calls Marathon a "trailblazer in scale bitcoin mining deployment," and highlights how its "gutsy commitment to all strategically tied constituents" has significantly benefited shareholders.

With this in mind, Dede expects the bitcoin network hash rate to reach 350 EH/s by the end of the year. For fiscal 2022, the analyst estimates that revenue will land at $969.3 million and earnings per share will come in at $6.46. This would mark solid growth over 2021, with analysts, on average, expecting MARA to post full-year revenue of $167.1 million and earnings of 3 cents per share.

"Important too, we think, is a peak at 2023, the year before the halving when bitcoin awards decline to 3.125 per block from the current 6.25," Dede adds. "Given we garner little comfort in the expectation that transaction fees mitigate the decline, the next halving could begin to cull the industrial bitcoin mining herd that has evolved so rapidly over the past 12-18 months."