What happened
Shares of Nio (NYSE:NIO) climbed on Wednesday, following positive analyst remarks. As of 2:55 p.m. ET, the Chinese electric-vehicle (EV) maker's stock price was up more than 5%.

So what
Barclays analyst Jiong Shao placed an overweight rating on Nio's shares on Tuesday. He sees the company's stock price surging roughly 30% to $34 per share, fueled by rapidly rising sales of EVs in China and other markets.

A person is charging an electric vehicle. 
IMAGE SOURCE: GETTY IMAGES.

Shao noted that China is one of the world's largest and most profitable auto markets, due in part to the Chinese government's support of its nascent EV industry. He believes Nio is well-positioned to claim a leading share of China's lucrative and fast-growing electric-car market. 

Now what 
Shao's comments followed upbeat commentary from Credit Suisse analyst Bin Wang earlier this month. Wang is even more bullish on Nio's stock. He sees its share price more than tripling to $83, driven by new-vehicle launches.

Wang expects Nio's new luxury ET7 sedan and midsize ET5 sedan, due out in March and September, respectively, to help the carmaker boost its vehicle deliveries by 64% year over year to 150,000 in 2022. Moreover, like Shao, Wang sees significant potential for Nio to expand into Europe and other EV markets in the coming years.

With Nio's attractive growth opportunities in China and Europe, it's easy to see why Wall Street is getting excited about the company's stock. If the EV leader can find success in these booming markets -- and its 109% deliveries growth in 2021 suggests it will -- more gains could lie ahead for investors.

The stocks of NIO and other Chinese companies with U.S. listings have been under pressured through much of 2021 as they faced concern that they might eventually have to delist in this country as Washington and Beijing spar over compliance with accounting standards.

On the plus side for the auto maker, however, is widespread optimism about the outlook for electric vehicles. Analysts have been weighing in with upbeat commentary this year. One analyst thinks NIO’s American depositary receipts can double in price, while another sees NIO’s sales surging 50%.

DNB Asset Management bought 144,250 more NIO ADRs to end the fourth quarter with 833,746 ADRs.

NIO: The Market Has Lost Its Mind And That's Why I Am Buying
Jan. 25, 2022 2:03 PM ETNIO Inc. (NIO)191 Comments34 Likes
Summary
Shares of NIO are oversold and way too cheap given the delivery ramp that is set to take place this year.
ET5 and ET7 launches in China, and later in Germany, should act as catalysts for NIO’s revenue growth.
While shares are cheap, I am buying as much as I can afford.
Charging Up An Electric Car At Night
solarseven/iStock via Getty Images

Despite a massive drop in pricing since July, NIO (NIO)'s prospects in the EV market look better and better. The electric vehicle startup is going to launch new EV products in FY 2022 and it should see a continual production ramp now that manufacturing lines got upgraded. The cheaper valuation, however, is the real reason to buy into NIO's growth plan!

NIO share price
Data by YCharts
The market is wrong about NIO: Expect a massive production ramp in FY 2022
NIO delivered more than 10 thousand of its electric vehicles - including ES6s, EC6s and ES8s - in the month of December, which was the second straight month in which NIO delivered more than 10 thousand EVs. While the competition pulled ahead of NIO regarding delivery growth in FY 2021, NIO is set to catch up to its rivals in FY 2022 as the company gets ready to bring new EV products to market. NIO is going to release the ET5 and the ET7 sedans which will not only increase the density of NIO's product lineup but also signify the company's beginning penetration of the sedan market. NIO's current product lineup consists only of sport utility vehicles - which are selling well - but the narrow SUV orientation nevertheless limits NIO's sales potential to only a specific market segment.

The ET7, which is a full-size luxury sedan, will be launched in China in early 2022, but the company has said that the next destination for the ET7 will be Europe, Germany. NIO is currently only selling the ES8 sports utility vehicle in Norway, which acts like a gateway market for further penetration of other European countries. The ET7 sedan, which is set to compete with Tesla (TSLA)'s Model S, has been specifically designed to appeal to buyers outside of China.

The ET5, a mid-size electric coupe, is set to see its first deliveries in the fall of FY 2022. The company founder, William Li, said in December that the ET5 sedan has achieved the highest pre-order volume in the history of NIO.

Because of the massive production ramp in FY 2022, especially regarding the ET7 which will launch sooner than the ET5, NIO's delivery growth prospects have never been better than now. The electric vehicle startup delivered 91,429 electric vehicles in FY 2021, showing 109.1% year-over-year growth. This growth is impressive especially because FY 2021 has seen unprecedented chip shortages that resulted in production delays and underutilized manufacturing plants.

For FY 2022, I estimate that NIO will deliver a minimum of 190 thousand EVs, mostly ES6s which represented just about half of all of NIO's December deliveries. The ramp for the ET7 and the ET5 will likely start off slowly, but it should see growing momentum in the second half of the year. With 190 thousand potential EV sales this year, 10 thousand of which could be ET5s and ET7s, NIO would generate 108% year-over-year growth in deliveries in FY 2022. But, the EV firm may very well see an acceleration in its production and delivery growth rates if supply chain challenges no longer limit NIO's business expansion.

Huge and undeserved drop in pricing
Shares of NIO went through an extremely large and completely undeserved drop in pricing since July 2021 when shares soared as high as $55. Since July, NIO's commercial prospects in the electric vehicle market have been discounted by an unbelievable 55%, despite a recovery in deliveries in the fourth quarter and the best product lineup available since the firm was started.

Because NIO is going to launch new EV products this year, I believe revenue estimates are set to rise throughout the year. NIO is expected to generate $9.9B in revenues this year and $15.3B in revenues in the following year. I believe that predictions underestimate NIO's revenue potential, in large part because the EV maker is growing its appeal in the under-served sedan market and looks to expand in Europe... which will lead to more sales. For that reason, I expect NIO to generate higher revenues than are currently estimated for this year and next year.

For FY 2022, I expect NIO to generate $11.0B in revenues and for FY 2023, $16.5B in revenues. Since NIO has a market capitalization of $40B, the sales multiplier factors for FY 2022 and FY 2023 are 3.6 X and 2.4 X. These sales multipliers are quite low considering that NIO is set to see a more than 100% increase in EV deliveries this year. Because the sell-off has also affected other Chinese EV startups - XPeng (XPEV) and Li Auto (LI) - the entire sector is now very attractively priced.

NIO vs XPeng vs Li Auto market cap and PS ratio
Data by YCharts
Risks with NIO
The biggest commercial risk for NIO, as I see it, is for the EV company to botch its production and delivery ramp. If NIO executes well and delivers without delays, NIO could be catapulted into another valuation category in 2022.

From a macro perspective, new COVID-19 outbreaks and a slowdown in the Chinese economy represent general risks for NIO and other EV manufacturers. China has also slashed subsidies for electric vehicles by 30% this year which may affect demand for EVs in FY 2022. The subsidy rate is set to drop to zero next year, which potentially could slow down NIO's sales momentum.


Final thoughts
The market has lost its mind regarding EV stocks. Shares of NIO have become way too cheap given the potential the startup has in the electric vehicle market, especially now that more EV products are going to launch and the pre-order status for the ET5, although specific numbers have not been released, is encouraging. FY 2022 could see some nice surprises on the part of NIO and new product launches are set to be catalysts for the stock to power higher!

Bet on Discounted Nio as Production Capacity Hits New Heights
NIO stock below $30 is a great bet as the company enters new markets and increases production

By Vandita Jadeja Jan 24, 2022, 12:12 pm EST
Not all electric vehicle (EV) stocks had an excellent 2021, and Nio (NYSE:NIO) is no exception. However, the automaker is geared up to make 2022 one of its most successful years with several catalysts providing tailwinds for NIO stock.

NIO stock: A shot from the outside of a Nio display room at night.
Source: Robert Way / Shutterstock.com
The company plans to takes giant leaps into 2022. NIO stock is down by about 20% over the past week, and despite reporting strong delivery numbers for the month, the stock did not pick up. 

NIO stock once traded for more than $60, but it hit a new 52-week low today just above $23. This is a huge dip, but several EV stocks have declined due to the ongoing tech weakness and decreasing trust in Chinese stocks. 

However, there are positive catalysts that make NIO stock the one to own for 2022. Let’s take a look at one key factor that can push Nio shares back up. 

Growing Production Capacity 
The automaker is leaving no stone unturned to meet the growing demand for its EVs, and it has taken two major steps in the direction. Nio has leased a large headquarters building in San Jose, California and the space is more than 200,000 square feet. There will be massive research and production taking place at this facility.

This is not the first time the company has taken measures to expand production. Late last year, Nio announced its plans to double the capacity of its Hefei plant to 240,000 vehicles per year. Once the expansion process is complete, it will be able to manufacture up to 300,000 cars a year. That’s much higher than the current production capacity. 

The company has not shared details about when it plans to enter the U.S. market, but this move indicates it is planning to launch in the country soon. It is already planning to expand into European countries in 2022.

Nio already has a presence in Norway and is gaining popularity there. If it manages to meet growing demand, it will be able to make the most of the increasing interest in EVs. 

The company has also entered into a partnership with Baoshan Iron and Steel to collaborate on products and supply chain. EV makers have had a lot of trouble due to supply chain issues, and Nio is taking a step toward remedying this.

It has already reported strong deliveries for the past two months and has successfully met projected numbers for the quarter. This will have an impact on the bottom line and Nio will be able to impress investors with strong revenue. In turn, this could push NIO stock higher. 

The Bottom Line On NIO Stock 
Analysts are bullish on NIO stock. Erica Chen, a Macquarie analyst, gave NIO stock an “outperform” rating with an average price target of $37.70. The analyst expects 31% annual EV sales growth for China and 52% annual revenue growth through 2024. Additionally, Morgan Stanley analyst Tim Hsiao has an “overweight” rating for NIO stock.

Nio is currently trading at a discount and it may take some time to rebound. The fourth-quarter results could push the stock higher, but investors will have to remain patient.

Do not judge the company based on the temporary dip — NIO stock is one EV pick to own for the long term. The company is expanding production and gearing up to enter new markets. This shows it has the potential to grow and meet the demands of the consumers. At its new low, now is the right time to take a position in NIO stock. 


Is NIO Inc. (NYSE:NIO) Worth US$26.1 Based On Its Intrinsic Value?

NIO
-4.93%
Simply Wall St
Thu, February 10, 2022, 7:30 AM
In this article:

NIO
-4.93%

Today we'll do a simple run through of a valuation method used to estimate the attractiveness of NIO Inc. (NYSE:NIO) as an investment opportunity by estimating the company's future cash flows and discounting them to their present value. We will use the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model on this occasion. There's really not all that much to it, even though it might appear quite complex.

We would caution that there are many ways of valuing a company and, like the DCF, each technique has advantages and disadvantages in certain scenarios. If you still have some burning questions about this type of valuation, take a look at the Simply Wall St analysis model.

See our latest analysis for NIO

The model
We are going to use a two-stage DCF model, which, as the name states, takes into account two stages of growth. The first stage is generally a higher growth period which levels off heading towards the terminal value, captured in the second 'steady growth' period. To begin with, we have to get estimates of the next ten years of cash flows. Where possible we use analyst estimates, but when these aren't available we extrapolate the previous free cash flow (FCF) from the last estimate or reported value. We assume companies with shrinking free cash flow will slow their rate of shrinkage, and that companies with growing free cash flow will see their growth rate slow, over this period. We do this to reflect that growth tends to slow more in the early years than it does in later years.

Generally we assume that a dollar today is more valuable than a dollar in the future, and so the sum of these future cash flows is then discounted to today's value:

10-year free cash flow (FCF) forecast
2022

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

2028

2029

2030

2031

Levered FCF (CN¥, Millions)

-CN¥3.03b

CN¥935.5m

CN¥2.87b

CN¥6.93b

CN¥10.7b

CN¥14.8b

CN¥18.8b

CN¥22.5b

CN¥25.8b

CN¥28.5b

Growth Rate Estimate Source

Analyst x8

Analyst x8

Analyst x1

Analyst x1

Est @ 53.94%

Est @ 38.34%

Est @ 27.41%

Est @ 19.76%

Est @ 14.41%

Est @ 10.66%

Present Value (CN¥, Millions) Discounted @ 9.7%

-CN¥2.8k

CN¥777

CN¥2.2k

CN¥4.8k

CN¥6.7k

CN¥8.5k

CN¥9.8k

CN¥10.7k

CN¥11.2k

CN¥11.3k

("Est" = FCF growth rate estimated by Simply Wall St)
Present Value of 10-year Cash Flow (PVCF) = CN¥63b

The second stage is also known as Terminal Value, this is the business's cash flow after the first stage. For a number of reasons a very conservative growth rate is used that cannot exceed that of a country's GDP growth. In this case we have used the 5-year average of the 10-year government bond yield (1.9%) to estimate future growth. In the same way as with the 10-year 'growth' period, we discount future cash flows to today's value, using a cost of equity of 9.7%.

Terminal Value (TV)= FCF2031 × (1 + g) ÷ (r – g) = CN¥29b× (1 + 1.9%) ÷ (9.7%– 1.9%) = CN¥372b

Present Value of Terminal Value (PVTV)= TV / (1 + r)10= CN¥372b÷ ( 1 + 9.7%)10= CN¥147b

The total value is the sum of cash flows for the next ten years plus the discounted terminal value, which results in the Total Equity Value, which in this case is CN¥210b. The last step is to then divide the equity value by the number of shares outstanding. Relative to the current share price of US$26.1, the company appears slightly overvalued at the time of writing. Valuations are imprecise instruments though, rather like a telescope - move a few degrees and end up in a different galaxy. Do keep this in mind.

dcf
dcf
Important assumptions
We would point out that the most important inputs to a discounted cash flow are the discount rate and of course the actual cash flows. Part of investing is coming up with your own evaluation of a company's future performance, so try the calculation yourself and check your own assumptions. The DCF also does not consider the possible cyclicality of an industry, or a company's future capital requirements, so it does not give a full picture of a company's potential performance. Given that we are looking at NIO as potential shareholders, the cost of equity is used as the discount rate, rather than the cost of capital (or weighted average cost of capital, WACC) which accounts for debt. In this calculation we've used 9.7%, which is based on a levered beta of 1.583. Beta is a measure of a stock's volatility, compared to the market as a whole. We get our beta from the industry average beta of globally comparable companies, with an imposed limit between 0.8 and 2.0, which is a reasonable range for a stable business.

Looking Ahead:
Although the valuation of a company is important, it shouldn't be the only metric you look at when researching a company. DCF models are not the be-all and end-all of investment valuation. Instead the best use for a DCF model is to test certain assumptions and theories to see if they would lead to the company being undervalued or overvalued. For example, changes in the company's cost of equity or the risk free rate can significantly impact the valuation. Why is the intrinsic value lower than the current share price? For NIO, we've compiled three important aspects you should assess:

Risks: Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk. We've identified 1 warning sign with NIO , and understanding this should be part of your investment process.
Future Earnings: How does NIO's growth rate compare to its peers and the wider market? Dig deeper into the analyst consensus number for the upcoming years by interacting with our free analyst growth expectation chart.
Other Solid Businesses: Low debt, high returns on equity and good past performance are fundamental to a strong business. Why not explore our interactive list of stocks with solid business fundamentals to see if there are other companies you may not have considered!

It’s Okay to Be Cautious About Nio and Still Hit the Buy Button
Chris Markoch
Wed, February 9, 2022, 1:51 PM
In this article:

NIO
-4.93%

Explore the topics mentioned in this article

It seems investors don’t know what to do about Nio (NYSE:NIO). After pushing above $30 to start the year, NIO stock briefly dipped to under $20 in late January. As I write this, the stock is now trading around the $25 mark.

A close-up shot of the Nio (NIO) ES8 vehicle.
A close-up shot of the Nio (NIO) ES8 vehicle.
Source: xiaorui / Shutterstock.com

That volatility could be explained by investors souring on electric vehicle (EV) stocks. Some might attribute it to a slight decline in deliveries for Nio in January. But whatever the reason may be, it’s hard not to believe that NIO stock looks attractive at a price nearly 60% below its 52-week high.

However, if you’re going to invest in NIO stock at this time, I would suggest you go in with a conservative exit plan in place. Yes, it may mean you lose some gains if the stock really takes off. But I would be paying much more attention to the ceiling than the floor.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

NIO Stock: Apples and (Really Expensive) Oranges
One of General Motors’ (NYSE:GM) most popular models is the Chevy Bolt, which ranges in price from around $31,000 to $34,00. On the flip side, Nio vehicles start in the $50,000 range (without the battery).

7 EV Stocks With Key Product Launches In 2022

Now, I know many bulls will correctly point out that Nio is going after a significantly different target market than GM or Ford (NYSE:F). For that matter, it’s market is even different from competitors like Xpeng (NYSE:XPEV) and Li Auto (NASDAQ:LI). Both competitors are posting higher delivery numbers in Nio’s home country.

As a veteran of the marketing wars, I understand the significance of a target market. And I’m not going to debate math. Yes, Nio doesn’t have to sell as many of its premium vehicles as its lower-priced competitors. But I think that’s ignoring the basic problem Nio and NIO stock may face.

If EVs are going to become mainstream, they’re going to be at price points much closer to the Chevy Bolt — or lower. This is going to be true even if, as expected, Nio introduces a lower-priced market sometime later this year.

Playing Catch Up
Of course, as evidenced by Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA), there’s still a significant market for premium EVs in the United States. In fact, industry experts predict that, for the next five years, EVs will cost more than traditional internal combustion vehicles. That means the market will still be dominated by individuals who aren’t prone to sticker shock. This plays to Nio’s strength.

However, it remains to be seen if Nio will be able to successfully compete with names like Tesla and Lucid Group (NASDAQ:LCID). Both have a first-mover advantage in the States, if Nio even enters the market. And remember, Tesla continues to build out its own charging network. That somewhat negates the strategic advantage for Nio and its battery-as-a-service (BaaS) program.

Finally, not to be a Debbie Downer on NIO stock, but the strength of the EV market will likely come down to the strength of the U.S. economy. Economists have differing opinions about when or if a recession will take place. However, inflation is at 7% amidst what appears to be peak employment. The economy may not be overheating, but the check engine light is certainly on.

The Bottom Line on Nio
I agree with fellow InvestorPlace contributor Will Ashworth, who wrote that NIO stock was a buy below $20. What’s more, although it’s a small sample size, it appears that buyers agree. As soon as the stock went below that mark, investors rushed in.

However, it may be some time before investors get that kind of discount. That’s why, at this time, I believe Nio is a better trade than an investment. If that means you miss out on some profits by not chasing higher prices, so be it. There are simply too many variables to project anything other than continued volatility for NIO stock.

NIO Stock Price Prediction: Why One Analyst Sees the EV Maker Hitting $34

NIO
-4.93%
William White
Wed, February 9, 2022, 10:18 AM
In this article:

NIO
-4.93%

Nio (NYSE:NIO) stock is on the move Wednesday after one analyst released a new price prediction and rating for the electric vehicle (EV) company’s shares.

Image showing a Nio store with a glowing logo on the front representing NIO stock.
Image showing a Nio store with a glowing logo on the front representing NIO stock.
Source: Andy Feng/Shutterstock.com

Barclays analyst Jiong Shao is behind the news boosting NIO stock higher today. The analysts initiated coverage of the company’s shares, along with shares of Li Auto (NASDAQ:LI) and Xpeng (NYSE:XPEV), in a note to investors.

Let’s start with that NIO Stock price prediction first. Shao set a price target of $34 per share for NIO today. That’s below the analyst consensus rating of $55.57 per share. However, it still represents a potential 37.7% upside over the stock’s closing price on Tuesday.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Next up is the new rating for NIO stock that has investors excited today. The Barclays analyst kicks off their coverage of the shares with an overweight rating. The current consensus rating for NIO stock is a buy, which comes from 10 buy ratings and one hold rating.

7 EV Stocks With Key Product Launches In 2022

So why is Shao so bullish on NIO stock? The analyst said the following in a letter obtained by Seeking Alpha.

“We believe that the rapid adoption of EVs around the world and booming EV sales have presented China’s EV makers a rare opportunity to not only take a sizable market share of the domestic auto market – the largest in the world with about 25-30% global share by units sold per annum – but also build a dominant position on the world stage.”

NIO stock is up 5% as of Wednesday afternoon as it recovers from a sell-off at the start of the year that still has it down 22.5% year-to-date.

