{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-LightOblique;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red51\green51\blue51;\red255\green255\blue255;\red216\green0\blue103;
\red42\green43\blue45;\red21\green22\blue24;\red51\green0\blue135;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c25882\c25882\c25882;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c88627\c7059\c47843;
\cssrgb\c21569\c22353\c23137;\cssrgb\c10980\c11373\c12549;\cssrgb\c26667\c0\c60000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww38200\viewh19980\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa432\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Graphics giant Nvidia will no longer be spending $40 billion to acquire Arm, according to three anonymous sources \'93with direct knowledge of the transaction\'94 who {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/content/59c0d5f9-ed6a-4de6-a997-f25faed58833"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 spoke to the 
\f1\i Financial Times}}
\f1\i . 
\f0\i0 Instead, Nvidia will likely be spending up to $1.25 billion to Arm owner SoftBank for failing to go through with the transaction, while Arm CEO Simon Segars will reportedly lose his job in favor of Rene Hass (who coincidentally used to run Nvidia\'92s own Arm business many years ago).\cb1 \
\cb3 The deal, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.theverge.com/2020/9/13/21435507/nvidia-acquiring-arm-40-billion-chips-ai-deal"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 announced in September 2020}}, would have been one of the industry\'92s biggest ever, giving GPU manufacturer Nvidia control of the company whose architecture and intellectual property is key to every practically every smartphone and tablet chip ever made, as well as a growing number of server chips, and Apple\'92s entire future product roadmap for its impressive Arm-powered laptop and desktop PCs. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.theverge.com/2020/11/19/21574057/apple-m1-chips-laptop-performance-intel-qualcomm-competition"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Apple\'92s Arm laptop chips wowed the industry in late 2020}}, putting other manufacturers on notice.)\cb1 \
\cb3 Nvidia declined to comment to 
\f1\i The Verge
\f0\i0 , not even to confirm or deny that the deal had fallen through. Softbank and Arm didn\'92t immediately respond to requests for comment. None of the companies have publicly confirmed that the deal is off; it\'92s possible they are waiting until financial markets open in the UK or Japan, where Arm and Softbank are headquartered respectively. Softbank is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://twitter.com/SoftBank_Group/status/1490842193132593152"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 scheduled to report earnings}} later today on Japan time.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs42 \cf5 So what\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs32 \cf6 \cb3 Specifically, over the weekend 
\f4\i Investor's Business Daily
\f3\i0  noted how a whole series of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.fool.com/investing/stock-market/market-sectors/information-technology/semiconductor-stocks/"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc7 semiconductor stocks}} delivered beat-and-raise reports last week, which seems a bullish signal for the sector as a whole.\cb1 \
\cb3 As IBD details, on Friday alone, chip companies 
\f2\b Power Integrations
\f3\b0 ,
\f2\b  Synaptics
\f3\b0 ,
\f2\b  Microchip Technology
\f3\b0 , and\'a0
\f2\b Skyworks Solutions
\f3\b0  all reported earnings. Power Integrations beat analyst earnings estimates by 11%, Synaptics by 5%, Microchip by 2.5%, and Skyworks by 1% -- but while the size of the beats varied, all four companies undeniably exceeded expectations. Moreover, all four companies also predicted similar earnings beats in the coming quarter, with Synaptics in particular forecasting sales growth of 43% year over year. \'a0\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs42 \cf5 \cb3 Now what\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs32 \cf6 \cb3 Does this bullish performance, and do these bullish prognoses, for other chip stocks mean Nvidia stock will do similarly well? Of course not -- not necessarily, at least. But the uniformly better-than-expected results do appear to bode well for the health of the semiconductor industry.\cb1 \
\cb3 And with analysts forecasting Nvidia to grow its sales 48% in the coming quarter, and its profits by 58%, it's easy to see why investors would be optimistic about the stock today.\cb1 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs42 \cf5 \cb3 Should you invest $1,000 in NVIDIA Corporation right now?\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs32 \cf6 \cb3 Before you consider NVIDIA Corporation, you'll want to hear this.\cb1 \
\cb3 Our award-winning analyst team just revealed what they believe are the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://api.fool.com/infotron/infotrack/click?apikey=35527423-a535-4519-a07f-20014582e03e&impression=1d401a0f-9037-4186-a731-49913b6eb808&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.fool.com%2Fmms%2Fmark%2Fe-foolcom-sa-bbn-dyn%3Faid%3D8867%26source%3Disaeditxt0000713%26company%3DNVIDIA%2520Corporation%26ftm_mes%3Dfoolcom-sa-bbn-dyn-NVIDIA%2520Corporation%26ftm_cam%3Dsa-bbn-evergreen%26ftm_veh%3Darticle_pitch%26ftm_pit%3D9316"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b \cf7 \ul \ulc7 10 best stocks}} for investors to buy right now... and NVIDIA Corporation wasn't one of them.\cb1 \
\cb3 The online investing service they've run for nearly two decades, 
\f4\i Motley Fool Stock Advisor
\f3\i0 , has beaten the stock market by over 4X.* And right now, they think there are 10 stocks that are better buys.}